README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <img  src="./floatcam-circle.png" height="125px" alt="Floatcam logo"> <br/>
  <img  src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Version-0.1.0-blue.svg" alt="Version 1.0.0" />
  <img  src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Build-Passing-green.svg" alt="Build Passing" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-brightgreen?style=flat-square" alt="License MIT" />
  
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Platform-Linux%20%7C%20MacOS%20%7C%20Windows-blue?style=flat-square" alt="Platform Linux | MacOS | Windows" />

</p>

**Floatcam** is a simple, lightweight, and easy-to-use camera app that you can use alongside any screen recorder. It floats on top of other apps, so you can easily record your screen and your face at the same time.

It is perfect for recording tutorials, gameplay, or anything else you want to share with the world. The floating camera preview can be moved around while recording. You don't have to worry about the camera getting in the way of your recording or making such adjustment post-production.

## Features

Floatcam features a wide range of settings for 

- Customizing the shape of the floating window
- Changing the size of the floating window
- Adding a filter to the camera
- Adding a border to the window 
- and lots more!

## Installation

Floatcam is available on macOS, Windows and Linux. You can download it from the [releases] page.

## Usage

After installing Floatcam, launch it and customize the settings to your liking. When you are done customizing, you can minimize the settings window and start recording. You can move the floating window around while recording. You can also resize the floating window while recording. You can also change the shape of the floating window while recording.

### Using floatcam with Snap Camera (macOS only)

Floatcam works great with Snap Camera. You can use Snap Camera to add a virtual background to your video. You can also use Snap Camera to add a virtual filter to your video. You can use Snap Camera to add a virtual background and a virtual filter to your video. You can use Snap Camera to add a virtual background and a virtual filter to your video and then record it with Floatcam.

If you have Snap Camera installed, Floatcam will detect it and it will show up in the list of available cameras. You can select Snap Camera as the camera to use in Floatcam.

## Why Floatcam?

There are a lot of screen recorders out there, but most of them do not have a built-in camera. For those with a camera, it's either not floating, can't be moved around, not customizable or requires paying for a premium version. 

### A Brief History of Floatcam

The default screen recorder on macOS (Quicktime) does have a way to record the screen and the camera. However, it is not customizable and can sometimes get in the way of the recording.  On Linux, I used Kazam, which is a great screen recorder, but it does not have a built-in camera. One thing all these screen recorders have in common is that they are not customizable.

Loom, a popular screen recorder let's you do some of these things but it's not free. It features a floating camera, a screen recorder and a video editor. It's a great tool, but you have a recording limit of 5 minutes for the free version.

Since there are lots of amazing FREE screen recorders out there and all I wanted was a floating camera, I decided to make my own. I thought it would be nice to have a simple camera app that you can use alongside any screen recorder.

I hope you enjoy using Floatcam as much as I enjoyed making it. If you have any questions, suggestions, or feedback, feel free to reach out to me on [Twitter] or [Telegram].

## Roadmap

I have thought about some cool features that I would like to add to Floatcam like screen annotation, a simple whiteboard, area protection and more. 

While all of these features sounds cool, it's not the reason why I made Floatcam. I will add those features when I have the time.

## Contributing

If you want to contribute to Floatcam, you can do so by: 

- Reporting bugs
- Fixing bugs
- Suggesting and adding new features

## Building from source

If you want to build Floatcam from source, you can do so by cloning the repository and use electron-forge to build it.

## Support

If you like Floatcam, you can support me [by buying me a coffee](https://www.buymeacoffee.com/theterminalguy).

Commit message:

Add placeholder for README floatcam demos

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <img  src="./floatcam-circle.png" height="125px" alt="Floatcam logo"> <br/>
  <img  src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Version-0.1.0-blue.svg" alt="Version 1.0.0" />
  <img  src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Build-Passing-green.svg" alt="Build Passing" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-brightgreen?style=flat-square" alt="License MIT" />
  
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Platform-Linux%20%7C%20MacOS%20%7C%20Windows-blue?style=flat-square" alt="Platform Linux | MacOS | Windows" />

</p>

**Floatcam** is a simple, lightweight, and easy-to-use camera app that you can use alongside any screen recorder. It floats on top of other apps, so you can easily record your screen and your face at the same time.

It is perfect for recording tutorials, gameplay, or anything else you want to share with the world. The floating camera preview can be moved around while recording. You don't have to worry about the camera getting in the way of your recording or making such adjustment post-production.

## Features

Floatcam features a wide range of settings for 

- Customizing the shape of the floating window
- Changing the size of the floating window
- Adding a filter to the camera
- Adding a border to the window 
- and lots more!

## Installation

Floatcam is available on macOS, Windows and Linux. You can download it from the [releases] page.

> **Note:** Floatcam is currently in beta. If you find any bugs, [please raise an issue](https://github.com/theterminalguy/floatcam/issues/new). Also, we don't have a code signing certificate yet, so you might have to allow the app to run on your system.

## Usage

After installing Floatcam, launch it and customize the settings to your liking. When you are done customizing, you can minimize the settings window and start recording. You can move the floating window around while recording. You can also resize the floating window while recording. You can also change the shape of the floating window while recording.

[![Floatcam Demo](https://img.youtube.com/vi/dQw4w9WgXcQ/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dQw4w9WgXcQ)
### Using floatcam with Snap Camera (macOS only)

Floatcam works great with Snap Camera. You can use Snap Camera to add a virtual background to your video. You can also use Snap Camera to add a virtual filter to your video. You can use Snap Camera to add a virtual background and a virtual filter to your video. You can use Snap Camera to add a virtual background and a virtual filter to your video and then record it with Floatcam.

If you have Snap Camera installed, Floatcam will detect it and it will show up in the list of available cameras. You can select Snap Camera as the camera to use in Floatcam.

[![Floatcam Demo](https://img.youtube.com/vi/dQw4w9WgXcQ/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dQw4w9WgXcQ)

## Why Floatcam?

There are a lot of screen recorders out there, but most of them do not have a built-in camera. For those with a camera, it's either not floating, can't be moved around, not customizable or requires paying for a premium version. 

### A Brief History of Floatcam

The default screen recorder on macOS (Quicktime) does have a way to record the screen and the camera. However, it is not customizable and can sometimes get in the way of the recording.  On Linux, I used Kazam, which is a great screen recorder, but it does not have a built-in camera. One thing all these screen recorders have in common is that they are not customizable.

Loom, a popular screen recorder let's you do some of these things but it's not free. It features a floating camera, a screen recorder and a video editor. It's a great tool, but you have a recording limit of 5 minutes for the free version.

Since there are lots of amazing FREE screen recorders out there and all I wanted was a floating camera, I decided to make my own. I thought it would be nice to have a simple camera app that you can use alongside any screen recorder.

I hope you enjoy using Floatcam as much as I enjoyed making it. If you have any questions, suggestions, or feedback, feel free to reach out to me on [Twitter] or [Telegram].

## Roadmap

I have thought about some cool features that I would like to add to Floatcam like screen annotation, a simple whiteboard, area protection and more. 

While all of these features sounds cool, it's not the reason why I made Floatcam. I will add those features when I have the time.

## Contributing

If you want to contribute to Floatcam, you can do so by: 

- Reporting bugs
- Fixing bugs
- Suggesting and adding new features

## Building from source

If you want to build Floatcam from source, you can do so by cloning the repository and use electron-forge to build it.

## Support

If you like Floatcam, you can support me [by buying me a coffee](https://www.buymeacoffee.com/theterminalguy).
